Add instructions (#7)
JohnPhamous/codecademy-daily-journal: instructions.md

# Overview

In this project, you will bring together what you have learned in the previous lessons and build a project off of Codecademy. You will need to create your own files, write your own code, and publish the final product. We'll provide you with high-level tasks to guide your project to completion, but you will be responsible for deciding how to implement them in your code. There are many possible ways to correctly fulfill all of these requirements, and you should expect to use the internet, Codecademy, and other resources when you encounter a problem that you cannot easily solve.

## Project Title

> Journal

Reviewer: We were thinking Inspirational Homepage. Lmk if you're really against this!

## Hours to Complete

10

## Short Overview

Working with multiple APIs to build multiple features is a common problem to solve with React and Redux. How you display data is as important as how you fetch it. This project will give you an overview of how to build a React and Redux application that works with different APIs.

## Long Overview

> For this project, you will build journaling application. This application will interact with different APIs to provide users with a space to write down their thoughts. You can think of this app as a fancy todo list with features such as: showing inspirational images, quotes, and their weather.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this project, you will build an inspirational homepage. This application will interact with different APIs to display the current weather, a background image, and an inspirational quote. It will also provide users with a space to write down their goals for the day. You can think of this app as a fancy todo list with dynamic data. 
```

## Project Requirements

> - Build the application using React and Redux Toolkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build the application using React and Redux
```

- Version control your application with Git and host the repository on GitHub
- Write a README (using Markdown) that documents your project including:
  - The purpose of your project
  - Technologies used
  - Features
  - Future work

> - Your application is deployed and accessible by users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your application is deployed via Netlify and accessible by users
```

### Features

> - Users can check what the weather is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can check the current weather
```

> - Users are shown an inspirational image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users are shown an inspirational image
- Users can cycle through multiple fetched images
```

- Users are shown an inspirational quote
- Users can write down their thoughts
- Users can delete thoughts

> - Users can mark thoughts as complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can write down their goals
- Users can delete goals
- Users can mark goals as complete
```

## Prerequisites

- HTML
- CSS

> - JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JavaScript, including requests to APIs
```

- React

> - Redux Toolkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redux
```

Reviewer: Making it a general term; we're assuming that it covers redux, react-redux, and redux-toolkit

- Git and GitHub

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment with Netlify

```

## Setup

### Going Off Platform

You will be doing this project outside of the Codecademy platform, on your own computer.

> For this particular project, you will be using your own text editor (we suggest [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)) and Git version control. If you need help setting up your text editor, read our [article about setting up a text editor for web development](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/visual-studio-code). If you need a refresher on how to work with Git for version control, [review the Git lesson](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-git) or look at this [cheat sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this particular project, you will be using your own text editor (we suggest [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)) and Git version control. If you need help setting up your text editor, read our [article about setting up a text editor for web development](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/visual-studio-code). If you need a refresher on how to work with Git for version control, [review the Git lesson](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-git) or look at this [cheat sheet](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-git/modules/learn-git-git-workflow-u/cheatsheet).
```

> ### APIs

Reviewer: In this APIs section, you can just list the recommended APIs with a link to their homepages. Specific implementation instructions can go into tasks

Reviewer: AKA three tasks, one for each API, code snippets can go in hints

For this project, you are welcome to use any APIs you want. You are encouraged to find new APIs to build new features for your application. Below we provide some recommendations.

#### Weather

You can use the [OpenWeather API](https://openweathermap.org). Here's how to get started:

1. [Create an account](https://home.openweathermap.org/users/sign_up)
2. Go to the [API keys page](https://home.openweathermap.org/api_keys) and copy the `Key` value

> 3. Read their [API documentation](https://openweathermap.org/api) to see which API gives you the data you need

Reviewer: Task should just be "use api". Hint includes these three steps and the code snippet

##### Example

We will use the [Current Weather API](https://openweathermap.org/current) as an example. Inside of our code, we can get the current weather data like this:

```js
// This is the key you copied from step 2.
const API_KEY = "A_RANDOM_API_KEY";
const API_URL = `https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?appid=${API_KEY}`;

const getWeather = async () => {
  const response = await fetch(API_URL);
  const json = await response.json();

  return json;
};

> ```

Reviewer: Task should just be "use X api...". Hint includes these three steps and the code snippet

#### Quote

You can use the [Quotes API](https://quotes.rest). Here's how to get started:

1. Read their [API documentation](https://quotes.rest) to see which API gives you the data you need

##### Example

We will use the [Quote of the day API](https://quotes.rest/#operations-tag-Quote_of_the_day) as an example. Inside of our code, we can get the quote of the day like this:

```js

> const API_URL = `https://quotes.rest/qod?language=en`;

Reviewer: Task should just be "use api...". Hint includes these three steps and the code snippet

const getQuote = async () => {
  const response = await fetch(API_URL);
  const json = await response.json();

  return json;
};
```

#### Image

> You can use the [Unsplash API](https://unsplash.com/developers). Here's how to get started:

Reviewer: Task should just be "use api". Hint includes these three steps and the code snippet

The following tasks will help you identify natural break points.

### Breakdown your Application

Using pencil and paper or a tool of your choice, breakdown what your application will look like as components. You can reference the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html#step-1-break-the-ui-into-a-component-hierarchy) as a refresher on how to do this.

#### Hint

Think about what the main components of the application will be and how they will interact with each other. Think about how the state will look, which components will read the state, and which components will dispatch actions.

### Create Files and Run it Locally

On your computer, create the files needed for your React and Redux Toolkit application. Run your application locally to see what it looks like in the browser.

#### Hint

You can use [create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev/) to start your React application. If you want to set up Redux automatically, you can use [the Redux flag](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/introduction/quick-start#using-create-react-app).

### Version control

> Set up the folder you created previously to be a Git repository. Push the initial files to a repository on GitHub. You should be consistently committing your changes throughout the project. Make sure to have meaningful commit messages.

Reviewer: Note explicitly to learners that create-react-app sets up git by default. Eventually we can link to Ben's article (tbd)

#### HINT

To initialize your Git repository, you can run the below code in your terminal, where `application` is the name of your project folder.

```git init application```

If you want a refresher on the syntax, look back at the [Git cheat sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf).

### Build the Components

> Start building your application with mock data. You should focus on how your components will interact with the data rather than how it will get the data from APIs at this point. Once you've polished the interactions, then you can move forward with connecting your components with APIs. Remember to build reusable components and to keep your components small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start building your application with mock data. You should focus on how your components will interact with the data rather than how it will get the data from APIs at this point (that comes in a later task). Remember to build reusable components and to keep your components small.
```

Reviewer: It wasn't clear to me whether connecting the APIs was included in this task

Things to keep in mind:

- You are welcome to use any libraries to help you build features

> - You are welcome to use other APIs that are not listed above

Reviewer: Add a hint about recommended folder structure here.

### Connect your Components to Redux

> Now that you've built your components, you will want to connect them to the Redux store. Remember to build slices that make sense. Related data should belong in the same slice and actions should describe events happening in your application. At this point your application is not connected with the APIs so feel free to set the initial states for the slices to mock data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've built your components, you will want to connect them to the Redux store. Related data should belong in the same slice and actions should describe events happening in your application. At this point your application is not connected with the APIs so feel free to set the initial states for the slices to mock data.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

HINT
You'll need at least four slices: one for each API and one for the goals list.

```

> ### Connect your Application with the APIs

Reviewer: Make this three separate tasks. Add those bullets and code snippets to the respective hints you originally provided in the APIs section

Connect your application with the APIs needed for your features. When interacting with APIs, don't forget to handle the loading and error states.

### Publish to the Web

> Congratulations on building your application! Deploy what you've built and share it with the world!

Reviewer: Ask them to use netlify and github here

Reviewer: Hint will be link Ben's informational (in progress)

### Next Steps

> You've built something amazing! Share it with people, get feedback, and improve it.

Reviewer: Let me check if we are linking to forums here.

### Build the Components

Start building your application with mock data. You should focus on how your components will interact with the data rather than how it will get the data from APIs at this point (that comes in a later task). Remember to build reusable components and to keep your components small.

Things to keep in mind:

- You are welcome to use any libraries to help you build features
- You are welcome to use other APIs that are not listed above
- You should be consistent on the folder structure. Remember to think about features, connected components, and presentational components.

### Connect your Components to Redux

Now that you've built your components, you will want to connect them to the Redux store. Related data should belong in the same slice and actions should describe events happening in your application. At this point your application is not connected with the APIs so feel free to set the initial states for the slices to mock data.

HINT
You'll need at least four slices: one for each API and one for the goals list.

### Connect your Application with the APIs

> Connect your application with the APIs needed for your features. When interacting with APIs, don't forget to handle the loading and error states.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this is necessary anymore. I think we can get rid of this task, add a "Connect your Application with the..." to the title of the three API-related tasks, and mention "When interacting with APIs, don't forget to handle the loading and error states".
